README.md, before:

# VOPHER - Acquire vim-plugins the gopher-way

## Usage

![A screenshot showing a list of plugins managed by vopher](screenshots/vopher.png)

    Usage: vopher [flags] <action>

    Flags:

      -all
            don't keep <plugin>.zip around [prune]
      -dir string
            directory to extract the plugins to (default "./pack/vopher/start")
      -dry
            dry-run, show what would happen [prune, clean]
      -f string
            path|url to list of plugins (default "vopher.list")
      -filter value
            operate on given plugins only; matches substrings, can be given multiple times
      -force
            force certain actions [prune, clean]
      -ui update
            ui mode ('simple' or 'oneline', works with update action)
      -v    show version

    Actions:

      update   - acquires the given plugins from '-f <list>'
      fetch    - fetch a remote archive and extract it. the arguments are like fields
                 in a vopher.list file
      search   - searches http://vimawesome.com/ to list some plugins. Anything
                 after this is considered as "the search arguments"
      check    - checks plugins from '-f <list>' for newer versions
      clean    - removes given plugins from the '-f <list>'
                 * use '-force' to delete plugins.
      prune    - removes all entries from -dir <folder> which are not referenced in
                 '-f <list>'.
                 * use '-force' to delete plugins.
                 * use '-all=true' to delete <plugin>.zip files.
      status   - lists plugins in '-dir <folder>' and marks them accordingly
                 * 'v' means vopher is tracking the plugin in your '-f <list>'
                 * 'm' means vopher is tracking the plugin and it's missing. You can
                   fetch it with the 'update' action.
                 * no mark means that the plugin is not tracked by vopher
      sample   - prints a sample vopher.list to stdout
      version  - prints version of vopher
      archives - list all supported archive types


## Sample session

    $> cd ~/.vim

Acquire all of the plugins referenced in 'vopher.list' (the default file) and
put the fetched plugins into the 'pack/vopher/start' folder where Vim8 picks
them up without any further work:

    $> vopher up
    vopher: (10/10) [=================== 100% ====================]

So, what's in my 'pack/vopher/start' directory and how do they relate to my
`vopher.list`-file?

    $> vopher status
    v  EasyDigraph.vim
    v  buftabs
    v  goldenview
    v  unicode.vim
    v  vim-bbye
    v  vim-bufferline
    v  vim-fugitive
    v  vim-gitgutter
    v  vim-go
    v  vim-jinja

Lines marked with 'v' are plugins referenced in the `vopher.list`. 'vm' marked
lines are referenced plugins which are missing (acquire them by using the
'update' action). Lines without a special prefix are folders inside the
download folder, but they are not referenced by an entry in `vopher.list`.

I want to try out a new plugin I found on the internets:

    $> vopher fetch https://github.com/idanarye/vim-merginal
    vopher: (1/1) [=================== 100% ======================]

Did that work? Lets check:

    $> vopher status
    v  EasyDigraph.vim
    v  buftabs
    v  goldenview
    v  unicode.vim
    v  vim-bbye
    v  vim-bufferline
    v  vim-fugitive
    v  vim-gitgutter
    v  vim-go
    v  vim-jinja
       vim-merginal

Note the lack of 'v' in the last line: `vim-merginal` was an adhoc-fetch which
has no reference in a `vopher.list` and thus *vopher* does not know where this
plugin came from.


Let's check for updates / new stuff:

    $> vopher check
    ## goldenview - https://github.com/zhaocai/GoldenView.Vim#V1.3.5

    - master commits:

      31af855bd5 2014-09-08T08:41:49-04:00 Merge pull request #15 from lllama/patch-1
      0bb152d6d3 2014-08-18T10:55:38+03:00 Update Installation instructions with correct git link
      495a5cef06 2013-10-28T10:18:34-04:00 [admin] update zl
      c6c669b30d 2013-10-28T10:18:34-04:00 [minor] Do not open empty buffer by default
      f726e8885f 2013-10-28T10:18:34-04:00 [minor] tweak minheight
      91d52f86e6 2013-10-28T03:23:52-07:00 Merge pull request #10 from jvanbaarsen/patch-1
      39e97ad002 2013-10-28T10:53:41+01:00 Update README.md
      60f6c3e5a8 2013-05-07T21:42:48-04:00 [admin] update vimup message
      323a1f6c85 2013-05-07T21:17:45-04:00 [admin] update zl.vim
      0b1f325ba0 2013-04-27T20:23:37-04:00 [update] increase GoldenMinHeight
     *c23469a0bc 2013-04-26T17:10:53-04:00 [fix] Dirdiff
      c118d96660 2013-04-26T16:37:33-04:00 [minor] update GoldenViewTrace code
      ...

    - commits:

     *c23469a0bc 2013-04-26T17:10:53-04:00 [fix] Dirdiff
      c118d96660 2013-04-26T16:37:33-04:00 [minor] update GoldenViewTrace code
      ...

    - tags:

     *V1.3.5 2013-04-26T21:11:48Z V1.3.5
      V1.3.0 2013-04-22T21:57:01Z V1.3.0
      ...

`GoldenView.Vim#V1.3.5` is referenced in the `vopher.list`-file. *vopher*
tries to guess what commit this actually is and marks that line with a '\*'.
so, you can easily see that there seems to be no new release for 'GoldenView',
allthough there are some new commits.

I need more color! Are there any colorschemes available?

    $> vopher search colors
    5856 vim-colors-solarized precision colorscheme for the vim text editor
       github: https://github.com/altercation/vim-colors-solarized

    1151 vim-colorschemes one colorscheme pack to rule them all!
       github: https://github.com/flazz/vim-colorschemes

    482 vividchalk.vim vividchalk.vim: a colorscheme strangely reminiscent of Vibrant Ink for a certain OS X editor
          vim: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1891
       github: https://github.com/tpope/vim-vividchalk

    459 vim-css-color Highlight colors in css files
       github: https://github.com/ap/vim-css-color

    416 unite-colorscheme A unite.vim plugin
          vim: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3318
       github: https://github.com/ujihisa/unite-colorscheme
    ...


## Building / Installation

To build `vopher`, a working Go compiler is needed. Then do this:

    $> mkdir build-vopher && cd build-vopher
    $> env GOPATH=`pwd` go get -v github.com/mgumz/vopher

This will fetch and build `vopher` in the "build-vopher/bin" directory.
Copy the binary to any place you need it.

To build `vopher` with support for LZMA/XZ:

    $> env GOPATH=`pwd` go get -v -tags lzma github.com/mgumz/vopher

If you've already cloned `vopher` and are rebuilding for tests or contributing, 
do the following:

    $> go build

## The vopher-file format

The vopher-file is pretty simple:

    # a comment starts with a '#'
    # empty lines are ignored
    #  whitespaces at start or end of the line are ignored by vopher

    # fetches diffchar from vimscripts
    https://vim.sourceforge.io/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=25736

    # fetches diffchar from vimscripts and pick a proper folder name
    diffchar https://vim.sourceforge.io/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=25736

    # fetches diffchar from vimscripts, pick a proper folder name AND prevent
    # stripping away the first path within the .zip file
    diffchar https://vim.sourceforge.io/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=25736 strip=0

    # Github hosts lots of vimscripts and it has special powers: the regular
    # file fetching API allows to specifiy versions etc.

    # fetches vim-fugitive, current HEAD
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

    # fetches vim-fugitive, tagged release 'v2.1'
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive#v2.1.zip

    # fetches vim-fugitive, commit 913fff1cea3aa1a08a360a494fa05555e59147f5
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive#913fff1cea3aa1a08a360a494fa05555e59147f5

    # fetches vim-fugitive, commit 913fff1cea3aa1a08a360a494fa05555e59147f5,
    # but since it's too long, just use the short-version of it
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive#913fff1c

    # fetches vim-fugitive, apply some options to the
    # parser/extractor
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive option1=foo option2=bar

## Supported archive types

* .zip
* .vba, .vba.gz, .vmb, .vmb.gz (see [Charles E. Campbell](http://www.drchip.org/astronaut/vim/doc/pi_vimball.txt.html))
* .tar.gz, .tar.bz2, .tar.bzip2
* optional: .tar.lzma, .tar.xz

If the archive type can not be guessed by looking at the filename, *vopher*
probes the HTTP server to get a clue about the archive type.


## FAQ

> There is no UI integration into *vim*!!

Yep, nothing to see on this front here .. yet. I need some means to exchange
messages between *vim* and *vopher* in an asyncronous way, without the need for
+clientserver. I am also not so sure that the effort on integrating *vopher*
into the *vim*-UI is really worth it: I use *vim* as my text editor, not as a
means to constantly updating and managing the plugins I use. Thus, I consider
using *vopher* a rare case. Using the command line outside of *vim* is fine
for me right now.

> Why??

*pathogen* (which is what I use) has no means on it's own to acquire plugins.

*vundle* needs *git*. It fetches the whole history of any plugin. I am not
interested in the history, I am just interested in a certain snapshot for
a certain vim-plugin. In addition to that: the installation of *git* on Windows
takes up ~ 250mb. The sum of my vim-plugins take up ~ 4mb.

*Neobundle* depends on *git* or *svn*.

> Why not use curl/python/ruby???

*curl* is easy to install and available everywhere. But it's a bit stupid on
it's own. I would have to write a lot of what *vopher* does on it's own in a
real programming language 'x'. Or VimL (vimscript). Which would lead to even more
code and maybe an additional interpreter which might need even more stuff. On
Windows the curl-binary which supports https weighs ~ 1.6mb. A python
installer for Windows weighs ~ 17mb, installed ~ 60mb. Yeah, one could create
a standalone binary with something like *PyInstaller*. This does not give
anything substantially better than the *Golang*-produced binary and it's builtin
networking and concurrency powers.

> But Python and Ruby are just a `brew install` away!

Yep. If you are working mostly on the same platform you can get very
comfortable with your nice and cosy environment. If you switch platform
borders on a regular basis, things become a bit more complicated. I want to
place one .zip file on my server, containing all my *vim* files, vopher binaries
and then I am ready to go (pun) in no time.

> Will *vopher* handle all the dependencies for me?

Nope. There is no central repository for plugins which all of the
plugin-writers agree on (in contrast, SublimeText3 has the defacto standard
https://packagecontrol.io/installation ). Ontop of that something like a
file-format for dependencies is lacking. Again, setting up the vopher.list
file is something rare; I expect to change it from time to time.
Dependencies for the plugins won't change that often either. So, a lot of
effort and nothing substantial to gain from.

## License

Copyright (c) Mathias Gumz. Distributed under the same terms as *vim* itself.
See :help license.

Commit message:

Add "Tricks" section to README.md

README.md, after:

# VOPHER - Acquire vim-plugins the gopher-way

## Usage

![A screenshot showing a list of plugins managed by vopher](screenshots/vopher.png)

    Usage: vopher [flags] <action>

    Flags:

      -all
            don't keep <plugin>.zip around [prune]
      -dir string
            directory to extract the plugins to (default "./pack/vopher/start")
      -dry
            dry-run, show what would happen [prune, clean]
      -f string
            path|url to list of plugins (default "vopher.list")
      -filter value
            operate on given plugins only; matches substrings, can be given multiple times
      -force
            force certain actions [prune, clean]
      -ui update
            ui mode ('simple' or 'oneline', works with update action)
      -v    show version

    Actions:

      update   - acquires the given plugins from '-f <list>'
      fetch    - fetch a remote archive and extract it. the arguments are like fields
                 in a vopher.list file
      search   - searches http://vimawesome.com/ to list some plugins. Anything
                 after this is considered as "the search arguments"
      check    - checks plugins from '-f <list>' for newer versions
      clean    - removes given plugins from the '-f <list>'
                 * use '-force' to delete plugins.
      prune    - removes all entries from -dir <folder> which are not referenced in
                 '-f <list>'.
                 * use '-force' to delete plugins.
                 * use '-all=true' to delete <plugin>.zip files.
      status   - lists plugins in '-dir <folder>' and marks them accordingly
                 * 'v' means vopher is tracking the plugin in your '-f <list>'
                 * 'm' means vopher is tracking the plugin and it's missing. You can
                   fetch it with the 'update' action.
                 * no mark means that the plugin is not tracked by vopher
      sample   - prints a sample vopher.list to stdout
      version  - prints version of vopher
      archives - list all supported archive types


## Sample session

    $> cd ~/.vim

Acquire all of the plugins referenced in 'vopher.list' (the default file) and
put the fetched plugins into the 'pack/vopher/start' folder where Vim8 picks
them up without any further work:

    $> vopher up
    vopher: (10/10) [=================== 100% ====================]

So, what's in my 'pack/vopher/start' directory and how do they relate to my
`vopher.list`-file?

    $> vopher status
    v  EasyDigraph.vim
    v  buftabs
    v  goldenview
    v  unicode.vim
    v  vim-bbye
    v  vim-bufferline
    v  vim-fugitive
    v  vim-gitgutter
    v  vim-go
    v  vim-jinja

Lines marked with 'v' are plugins referenced in the `vopher.list`. 'vm' marked
lines are referenced plugins which are missing (acquire them by using the
'update' action). Lines without a special prefix are folders inside the
download folder, but they are not referenced by an entry in `vopher.list`.

I want to try out a new plugin I found on the internets:

    $> vopher fetch https://github.com/idanarye/vim-merginal
    vopher: (1/1) [=================== 100% ======================]

Did that work? Lets check:

    $> vopher status
    v  EasyDigraph.vim
    v  buftabs
    v  goldenview
    v  unicode.vim
    v  vim-bbye
    v  vim-bufferline
    v  vim-fugitive
    v  vim-gitgutter
    v  vim-go
    v  vim-jinja
       vim-merginal

Note the lack of 'v' in the last line: `vim-merginal` was an adhoc-fetch which
has no reference in a `vopher.list` and thus *vopher* does not know where this
plugin came from.


Let's check for updates / new stuff:

    $> vopher check
    ## goldenview - https://github.com/zhaocai/GoldenView.Vim#V1.3.5

    - master commits:

      31af855bd5 2014-09-08T08:41:49-04:00 Merge pull request #15 from lllama/patch-1
      0bb152d6d3 2014-08-18T10:55:38+03:00 Update Installation instructions with correct git link
      495a5cef06 2013-10-28T10:18:34-04:00 [admin] update zl
      c6c669b30d 2013-10-28T10:18:34-04:00 [minor] Do not open empty buffer by default
      f726e8885f 2013-10-28T10:18:34-04:00 [minor] tweak minheight
      91d52f86e6 2013-10-28T03:23:52-07:00 Merge pull request #10 from jvanbaarsen/patch-1
      39e97ad002 2013-10-28T10:53:41+01:00 Update README.md
      60f6c3e5a8 2013-05-07T21:42:48-04:00 [admin] update vimup message
      323a1f6c85 2013-05-07T21:17:45-04:00 [admin] update zl.vim
      0b1f325ba0 2013-04-27T20:23:37-04:00 [update] increase GoldenMinHeight
     *c23469a0bc 2013-04-26T17:10:53-04:00 [fix] Dirdiff
      c118d96660 2013-04-26T16:37:33-04:00 [minor] update GoldenViewTrace code
      ...

    - commits:

     *c23469a0bc 2013-04-26T17:10:53-04:00 [fix] Dirdiff
      c118d96660 2013-04-26T16:37:33-04:00 [minor] update GoldenViewTrace code
      ...

    - tags:

     *V1.3.5 2013-04-26T21:11:48Z V1.3.5
      V1.3.0 2013-04-22T21:57:01Z V1.3.0
      ...

`GoldenView.Vim#V1.3.5` is referenced in the `vopher.list`-file. *vopher*
tries to guess what commit this actually is and marks that line with a '\*'.
so, you can easily see that there seems to be no new release for 'GoldenView',
allthough there are some new commits.

I need more color! Are there any colorschemes available?

    $> vopher search colors
    5856 vim-colors-solarized precision colorscheme for the vim text editor
       github: https://github.com/altercation/vim-colors-solarized

    1151 vim-colorschemes one colorscheme pack to rule them all!
       github: https://github.com/flazz/vim-colorschemes

    482 vividchalk.vim vividchalk.vim: a colorscheme strangely reminiscent of Vibrant Ink for a certain OS X editor
          vim: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1891
       github: https://github.com/tpope/vim-vividchalk

    459 vim-css-color Highlight colors in css files
       github: https://github.com/ap/vim-css-color

    416 unite-colorscheme A unite.vim plugin
          vim: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3318
       github: https://github.com/ujihisa/unite-colorscheme
    ...


## Building / Installation

To build `vopher`, a working Go compiler is needed. Then do this:

    $> mkdir build-vopher && cd build-vopher
    $> env GOPATH=`pwd` go get -v github.com/mgumz/vopher

This will fetch and build `vopher` in the "build-vopher/bin" directory.
Copy the binary to any place you need it.

To build `vopher` with support for LZMA/XZ:

    $> env GOPATH=`pwd` go get -v -tags lzma github.com/mgumz/vopher

If you've already cloned `vopher` and are rebuilding for tests or contributing, 
do the following:

    $> go build

## The vopher-file format

The vopher-file is pretty simple:

    # a comment starts with a '#'
    # empty lines are ignored
    #  whitespaces at start or end of the line are ignored by vopher

    # fetches diffchar from vimscripts
    https://vim.sourceforge.io/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=25736

    # fetches diffchar from vimscripts and pick a proper folder name
    diffchar https://vim.sourceforge.io/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=25736

    # fetches diffchar from vimscripts, pick a proper folder name AND prevent
    # stripping away the first path within the .zip file
    diffchar https://vim.sourceforge.io/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=25736 strip=0

    # Github hosts lots of vimscripts and it has special powers: the regular
    # file fetching API allows to specifiy versions etc.

    # fetches vim-fugitive, current HEAD
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

    # fetches vim-fugitive, tagged release 'v2.1'
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive#v2.1.zip

    # fetches vim-fugitive, commit 913fff1cea3aa1a08a360a494fa05555e59147f5
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive#913fff1cea3aa1a08a360a494fa05555e59147f5

    # fetches vim-fugitive, commit 913fff1cea3aa1a08a360a494fa05555e59147f5,
    # but since it's too long, just use the short-version of it
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive#913fff1c

    # fetches vim-fugitive, apply some options to the
    # parser/extractor
    https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive option1=foo option2=bar

## Supported archive types

* .zip
* .vba, .vba.gz, .vmb, .vmb.gz (see [Charles E. Campbell](http://www.drchip.org/astronaut/vim/doc/pi_vimball.txt.html))
* .tar.gz, .tar.bz2, .tar.bzip2
* optional: .tar.lzma, .tar.xz

If the archive type can not be guessed by looking at the filename, *vopher*
probes the HTTP server to get a clue about the archive type.


## Tricks

### Bootstrap your Vim folder

Since `vopher` is able to fetch and extract data all on it's own, you can also
use it to boostrap your own `.vim` (or `.config/nvim`) folder:

    $> vopher -dir . fetch .vim github.com/mgumz/bones-vim
    vopher: (1/1) [================ 100% =================]
    $> ln -s .vim/init.vim .vimrc
    $> cd .vim && vopher up
    vopher: (38/38) [============== 100% =================]

And done. I am ready to use Vim with all my plugins installed.

## FAQ

> There is no UI integration into *vim*!!

Yep, nothing to see on this front here .. yet. I need some means to exchange
messages between *vim* and *vopher* in an asyncronous way, without the need for
+clientserver. I am also not so sure that the effort on integrating *vopher*
into the *vim*-UI is really worth it: I use *vim* as my text editor, not as a
means to constantly updating and managing the plugins I use. Thus, I consider
using *vopher* a rare case. Using the command line outside of *vim* is fine
for me right now.

> Why??

*pathogen* (which is what I use) has no means on it's own to acquire plugins.

*vundle* needs *git*. It fetches the whole history of any plugin. I am not
interested in the history, I am just interested in a certain snapshot for
a certain vim-plugin. In addition to that: the installation of *git* on Windows
takes up ~ 250mb. The sum of my vim-plugins take up ~ 4mb.

*Neobundle* depends on *git* or *svn*.

> Why not use curl/python/ruby???

*curl* is easy to install and available everywhere. But it's a bit stupid on
it's own. I would have to write a lot of what *vopher* does on it's own in a
real programming language 'x'. Or VimL (vimscript). Which would lead to even more
code and maybe an additional interpreter which might need even more stuff. On
Windows the curl-binary which supports https weighs ~ 1.6mb. A python
installer for Windows weighs ~ 17mb, installed ~ 60mb. Yeah, one could create
a standalone binary with something like *PyInstaller*. This does not give
anything substantially better than the *Golang*-produced binary and it's builtin
networking and concurrency powers.

> But Python and Ruby are just a `brew install` away!

Yep. If you are working mostly on the same platform you can get very
comfortable with your nice and cosy environment. If you switch platform
borders on a regular basis, things become a bit more complicated. I want to
place one .zip file on my server, containing all my *vim* files, vopher binaries
and then I am ready to go (pun) in no time.

> Will *vopher* handle all the dependencies for me?

Nope. There is no central repository for plugins which all of the
plugin-writers agree on (in contrast, SublimeText3 has the defacto standard
https://packagecontrol.io/installation ). Ontop of that something like a
file-format for dependencies is lacking. Again, setting up the vopher.list
file is something rare; I expect to change it from time to time.
Dependencies for the plugins won't change that often either. So, a lot of
effort and nothing substantial to gain from.

## License

Copyright (c) Mathias Gumz. Distributed under the same terms as *vim* itself.
See :help license.
